Terms & Conditions 

  

Introduction 

1a. In these terms and conditions: 

1b. "child" means the child named on the Nursery Registration Form. 

1c. "parent/guardian/bill payer" means the person or persons signing the Nursery Registration Form. 

1d. "nursery" means the nursery operated by Coat of many Colours Nurseries (CMC) 

1e. " Registration Form" means Coat of many Colours Nursery form with that title as completed by the parent/guardian/bill payer. 

1.f These terms and conditions form part of the contract between Coat of many Colours Nurseries owned by Kingsborough Centre and the parent/guardian/bill payer in relation to the place to be made available to the child at the nursery (the "contract"). The contract comprises these terms and conditions and the Nursery Registration Form.



2.Enrolment. 

2a. Registration: A non-refundable £25.00 application fee is required in order to apply for a place, which is due upon receipt of your child's registration form. 

2b. Deposit: A refundable deposit is required in order to secure your child's place (will vary depending on sessions), this is due upon receipt of your child's registration form. 

2c. Upon acceptance of a childcare place, a Direct Debit Mandate must be set up (excluding EYE and Tax-Free Childcare). At Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries discretion, fees may be payable by BACS at a 10% surcharge. Once this is paid the child's settling in period will be arranged. 

2d. Should a Parent/guardian/bill payer cancel a place after signing the registration form, Coat of many Colours Nurseries reserve the right to enforce the payment of one month's fees and retain the deposit.   

2e. If your child's start date is part way through the month and pay an annualised amount each month then we will invoice for the actual sessions taken and begin the calendar month calculation the following month. If you pay a sessional amount each month you will pay for the sessions taken and the following month's sessions. 

2f. If a start date is postponed by the parent/guardian/bill payer for any reason we reserve the right to charge from the original start date stated on the registration form. 

  

3. Nursery Fees and Charges. 

3a. Nursery fees are calculated from actual booked attendance, based on the fee structure for the Nursery. 

3b. No refund will be given in the event of the Child's absence due to illness, holiday or for any other reason. 

3c. Unused booked sessions are not refundable

3d. We do not provide discounts for any extended periods of absence. 

3e. Any reduction to a child's booking pattern requires a one calendar month's notice.  

3f. Fees are set to reflect the cost of the service provided and the right is reserved to review them periodically. You will be given one month's notice of any increase to fees. 

3g. The schedule of fees are as published. 

3h. Overall responsibility for paying fees resides with the parents/guardian/bill payer of the child. 

  

  



4. Billing.

4a. Invoices 

Invoices are issued monthly on or around the 20th of the month. Invoices will be emailed to you via the email address you provided on enrolment. If you have not received your invoices, you will need to notify nursery management who will reissue your invoices. Any discrepancies with your invoices must be notified to the nursery management immediately on receipt of your invoice. We do not raise invoices weekly

4b. Annualised Billing 

The fees payable are calculated by taking the child's weekly attendance fee, multiplying the same by 52, being the number of chargeable weeks per annum, and dividing by 12 to give a monthly payment which is payable monthly. If there is a change in fees or attendance i.e. age or booked sessions, the fees are calculated by reverting to sessional invoicing prior to reverting back to annualised billing. 

4c. Sessional Billing 

The fees payable are calculated by multiplying the child's individual sessions during the month to give a monthly payment, which is payable monthly in advance.  

4d. Weekly 

The fees payable are calculated by taking the child's annual attendance fee, and dividing the figure by 52, to give a weekly payment which is payable weekly. Weekly fees are payable with a surcharge of 2%. 



5. Payment. 

5a. Direct Debit 

Monthly payment is required in advance by monthly Direct Debit on the 1st of every month. If the due date falls on the weekend or a bank holiday, payment will be taken the next working day. 

Weekly payment is required in advance by Friday of every week. 

  

5b. Childcare Vouchers 

Payment is required in advance by childcare voucher by the 1st of every month. If the voucher is not paid by the 1st of the month, the invoice is deemed payable in full by the parent/ guardian/bill payer. You need to complete the direct debit mandate form. Your monthly invoice will show the full amount you owe. The amount to be taken by direct debit will be your fees minus your voucher amount. 



5c.  Tax Free Childcare 

Payment is required in advance by Bacs transfer by the 1st of every month. If the due date falls on the weekend or a bank holiday, payment should be made by no later than the next working day. 

  

5e. The parent/guardian/bill payer remains responsible for fees and the nursery is not liable for collections from third parties, e.g. colleges, grant funding, voucher providers. The parent/guardian/bill payer remains responsible for all outstanding fees paid. 

  

6. Arrears 

6a. Any payment declined for any reason returned will incur an administration charge of £25, followed by £5.00 per day thereafter (including weekends and bank holidays) up to 14 days. 

6b. Coat of many Colours Nursery reserves the right to refuse admission to any child whose account is in arrears.  For example, if you have paid January's invoice but have not paid February's invoice on the 1st February, you still will not be able to access the nursery on the 2nd February until your outstanding arrears are paid in full.

6c. In the first instance, you will receive notification of your outstanding arrears either by email or call. We will reissue your invoice with late charges included in the total and request the new invoice amount be paid within 7 days via the usual payment method. Your child cannot attend the setting until the outstanding payment is made

6d. After 7 days if the outstanding amount is not paid, Coat of many Colours Nursery will terminate the contract and refer your outstanding balance to our Debt Collectors for recovery at a cost to you their charges.  

6e. In addition as prescribed by the Late Payments Act 2002, we will claim interest on late payments of 8.5% per annum. If the account remains outstanding following the formal demand Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries will pursue through the legal system any outstanding monies and any court costs are added to the debt accordingly. 

  

7. Sessions 

7a. Sessions, days and hours are not interchangeable.   

7b. The minimum number of sessions your child can be booked into the Nursery for is for 2 session per week. One session equals either a morning or afternoon half-day session.  

7c. Ad-Hoc sessions are billed at the sessional rate with a 10% surcharge and due for payment immediately. We require at least 2 working days' notice if you would like to do any additional sessions, to ensure we stay inline with Ofsted ratios and the room capacity. 

7d. Ad-Hoc hourly sessions are billed at the hourly sessional rate with a 10% surcharge and due for payment immediately. 

7d. Hourly sessions are billed at the hourly session rate. The child is required to attend the setting for at least 2 hours per week. 

7e. Shift patterns and rolling rota contracts require a minimum of 6 sessions per week. 1 months' notice is required. Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries have the right to decline any new shift patterns. 

7f. Parents/guardians/bill payers either dropping off or collecting beyond the booked session times will be subject to an additional surcharge. A Surcharge will be levied £5.00 for each 5 minutes children are dropped off or collected outside their booked session times and require payment within 3 days. 

  

Opening Times. 

8a. The nursery is open from 07:30 to 18:00, Monday to Friday. The Nursery will be closed for weekends, Bank Holidays and between Christmas and New Year. There is optional early drop off and extended pickup. 

  

Cancellation/Termination. 

9a. Notice Period 

Written notice of one calendar month must be emailed to the nursery manager. You must inform Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries by no later than the 20th of the previous month. For example if you wanted to terminate your contract at the nursery for December 2023, you would need to inform us by the 20th October 2023. Additionally, if you give notice before the 20th November 2023, this will not take effect until 1st January 2024.

9b. Failure by the Parent/guardian/bill payer to provide one calendar months' notice or any notice at all shall render the parent/guardian/bill payer liable to the nursery for one month's fees. 

9c. A place will not be offered at Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries to a child within 3 months of them leaving. 

9d. The deposit is not the first months fees, or the final months fees, and will be refunded in full within 6 weeks of the child leaving the nursery provided one calendar month notice has been given in writing prior to your child leaving nursery, and no additional payments or fees are outstanding on your account. 

9e. Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries reserves the right to terminate any Child's enrolment or restrict access to parent/guardian/bill payer or child, at any time without notice, in consideration of the protection of other children and staff, and the well- being and smooth operation of the Nursery. Any disruption caused by a parent/guardian/bill payer or child that is deemed inappropriate or not conducive to a nursery environment, or undermines the reputation of the setting, may result in exclusion from the nursery.

9f. We reserve the right to end this agreement with immediate effect and without notice if (1) you have not paid the agreed fees (2) you have breached your obligations under this agreement (3) your child's behaviour is unacceptable or endangers the safety and wellbeing of the staff and any of the other children in the Nursery (4) financial, business or commercial reasons compel us to radically change the nature of the Nursery's operations, including but not limited to permanent closure of the Nursery, a change of childcare or business premises, a change of owners, or a decision to close our doors to reduce capacity.

9g. We reserve the right to exclude any child whose conduct is, in our opinion, disruptive or in any other way unacceptable to the smooth and efficient running of our Nursery. 

Naturally every effort will be made to avoid this action and may include special needs assessment or one to one care if funding allows. In some instances, we may suspend a child until additional support is put in place. We ask all parents / guardian/bill payers to appreciate this and to understand that, in the event of having to exclude any child, all fees are non-refundable. 

 

Non-Solicitation of staff. 

10a. During the term of this agreement and for the period of 6 months following termination (however terminated) where a member of staff, within 6 months of leaving the employment of the Nursery, is employed by a parent/ guardian/bill payer to care for their child, who was previously registered at the Nursery, then the parent / guardian will be liable to pay a sum equivalent to two month's salary for the employee at the time their employment with the Nursery terminated.



Non-Attendance. 

11a. Please advise the nursery prior to 8:45 am if a child will not be attending due to illness. Otherwise your child's non-attendance will automatically be documented as an uninformed absence (Recording of uniformed absences is part of the safeguarding policy and procedure). 

11b. Fees are based on booked days, not attendance, therefore parents/ guardians/bill payers are responsible for fees whether child attends or not. (This includes sick days and holidays booked.) Fees are payable during periods of absence from the nursery, including sickness, holidays and Bank Holidays and training days. 

11c. Kingsborough Centre - Coat of Many Colours Nurseries cannot undertake the care of sick children. The nursery must be informed of any child sickness or problems before attempting to bring the child to the premises. Each case can then be considered on a strictly individual basis. As noted above no refund will be given in the event of the child's exclusion due to illness.